docs/guides/llms.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuring LLMs
icon: gear
---

ControlFlow is optimized for workflows that are composed of multiple tasks, each of which can be completed by a different agent. One benefit of this approach is that you can use a different LLM for each task, or even for each agent assigned to a task. 

ControlFlow will ensure that all agents share a consistent context and history, even if they are using different models. This allows you to leverage the relative strengths of different models, depending on your requirements. 

## The default model

By default, ControlFlow uses OpenAI's GPT-4o model. GPT-4o is an extremely powerful and popular model that provides excellent out-of-the-box performance on most tasks. This does mean that to run an agent with no additional configuration, you will need to provide an OpenAI API key. 

## Selecting a different LLM

Every ControlFlow agent can be assigned a specific LLM. When instantiating an agent, you can pass a `model` parameter to specify the LLM to use. 

ControlFlow agents can use any LangChain LLM class that supports chat-based APIs and tool calling. For a complete list of available models, settings, and instructions, please see LangChain's [LLM provider documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/).

<Tip>
ControlFlow includes OpenAI and Azure OpenAI models by default. To use other models, you'll need to first install the corresponding LangChain package and supply any required credentials. See the model's [documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/) for more information.
</Tip>


To configure a different LLM, follow these steps:
<Steps>
<Step title="Install required packages">
To use an LLM, first make sure you have installed the appropriate provider package. ControlFlow only includes `langchain_openai` by default. For example, to use an Anthropic model, first run:
```
pip install langchain_anthropic
```
</Step>
<Step title="Configure API keys">
You must provide the correct API keys and configuration for the LLM you want to use. These can be provided as environment variables or when you create the model in your script. For example, to use an Anthropic model, set the `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` environment variable:

```
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<your-api-key>
```
For model-specific instructions, please refer to the provider's documentation.
</Step>
<Step title="Create the model">
Begin by creating the LLM object in your script. For example, to use Claude 3 Opus:

```python
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

# create the model
model = ChatAnthropic(model='claude-3-opus-20240229')
```
</Step>
<Step title="Pass the model to an agent">
Next, create an agent with the specified model:

```python
import controlflow as cf

# provide the model to an agent
agent = cf.Agent(model=model)
```
</Step>
<Step title='Assign the agent to a task'>
Finally, assign your agent to a task:

```python
# assign the agent to a task
task = cf.Task('Write a short poem about LLMs', agents=[agent])

# (optional) run the task
task.run()
```
</Step>
</Steps>

<Accordion title="Click here to copy the entire example script">

```python
import controlflow as cf
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

# create the model
model = ChatAnthropic(model='claude-3-opus-20240229')

# provide the model to an agent
agent = cf.Agent(model=model)

# assign the agent to a task
task = cf.Task('Write a short poem about LLMs', agents=[agent])

# (optional) run the task
task.run()
```
</Accordion>

### Model configuration

In addition to choosing a specific model, you can also configure the model's parameters. For example, you can set the temperature for GPT-4o:

```python
import controlflow as cf
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

model = ChatOpenAI(model='gpt-4o', temperature=0.1)
agent = cf.Agent(model=model)

assert agent.model.temperature == 0.1
```

## Changing the default model

ControlFlow has a few ways to customize the default LLM. 

<Tip>
ControlFlow includes OpenAI and Azure OpenAI models by default. To use other models, you'll need to first install the corresponding LangChain package and supply any required credentials. See the model's [documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/) for more information.
</Tip>

### From a model object

To use any model as the default LLM, create the model object in your script and assign it to `controlflow.defaults.model`. It will be used by any agent that does not have a model specified.

```python
import controlflow as cf
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

# set the default model
cf.defaults.model = ChatAnthropic(
    model='claude-3-opus-20240229', 
    temperature=0.1,
)

# check that the default model is loaded
assert cf.Agent('Marvin').model.model_name == 'claude-3-opus-20240229'
```
### From a string setting

You can also specify a default model using a string, which is convenient though it doesn't allow you to configure advanced model settings. The string must have the form `<provider>/<model name>`.

You can apply this setting either by using an environment variable before you import ControlFlow or in your script at runtime. For example, to use GPT 3.5 Turbo as the default model:

<CodeGroup>
```bash Set an environment variable
export CONTROLFLOW_LLM_MODEL=openai/gpt-3.5-turbo
```

```python Set a runtime variable
import controlflow as cf
# set the default model as a string
cf.defaults.model = "openai/gpt-3.5-turbo"

# check that the default model is loaded
assert cf.Agent('Marvin').model.model_name == 'gpt-3.5-turbo'
```
</CodeGroup>

<Note>
The default model can only be set by environment variable before importing ControlFlow. Once ControlFlow is imported, it reads the `controlflow.settings.llm_model` value to create the default model object.
</Note>


At this time, setting the default model via string is only supported for the following providers:
- `openai`
- `azure-openai`
- `anthropic`
- `google`
- `groq`

Commit message:

New flow docs; clean up

docs/guides/llms.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuring LLMs
description: ControlFlow supports a variety of LLMs and model providers.
icon: gear
---

ControlFlow is optimized for workflows that are composed of multiple tasks, each of which can be completed by a different agent. One benefit of this approach is that you can use a different LLM for each task, or even for each agent assigned to a task. 

ControlFlow will ensure that all agents share a consistent context and history, even if they are using different models. This allows you to leverage the relative strengths of different models, depending on your requirements. 

## The default model

By default, ControlFlow uses OpenAI's GPT-4o model. GPT-4o is an extremely powerful and popular model that provides excellent out-of-the-box performance on most tasks. This does mean that to run an agent with no additional configuration, you will need to provide an OpenAI API key. 

## Selecting a different LLM

Every ControlFlow agent can be assigned a specific LLM. When instantiating an agent, you can pass a `model` parameter to specify the LLM to use. 

ControlFlow agents can use any LangChain LLM class that supports chat-based APIs and tool calling. For a complete list of available models, settings, and instructions, please see LangChain's [LLM provider documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/).

<Tip>
ControlFlow includes OpenAI and Azure OpenAI models by default. To use other models, you'll need to first install the corresponding LangChain package and supply any required credentials. See the model's [documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/) for more information.
</Tip>


To configure a different LLM, follow these steps:
<Steps>
<Step title="Install required packages">
To use an LLM, first make sure you have installed the appropriate provider package. ControlFlow only includes `langchain_openai` by default. For example, to use an Anthropic model, first run:
```
pip install langchain_anthropic
```
</Step>
<Step title="Configure API keys">
You must provide the correct API keys and configuration for the LLM you want to use. These can be provided as environment variables or when you create the model in your script. For example, to use an Anthropic model, set the `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` environment variable:

```
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<your-api-key>
```
For model-specific instructions, please refer to the provider's documentation.
</Step>
<Step title="Create the model">
Begin by creating the LLM object in your script. For example, to use Claude 3 Opus:

```python
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

# create the model
model = ChatAnthropic(model='claude-3-opus-20240229')
```
</Step>
<Step title="Pass the model to an agent">
Next, create an agent with the specified model:

```python
import controlflow as cf

# provide the model to an agent
agent = cf.Agent(model=model)
```
</Step>
<Step title='Assign the agent to a task'>
Finally, assign your agent to a task:

```python
# assign the agent to a task
task = cf.Task('Write a short poem about LLMs', agents=[agent])

# (optional) run the task
task.run()
```
</Step>
</Steps>

<Accordion title="Click here to copy the entire example script">

```python
import controlflow as cf
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

# create the model
model = ChatAnthropic(model='claude-3-opus-20240229')

# provide the model to an agent
agent = cf.Agent(model=model)

# assign the agent to a task
task = cf.Task('Write a short poem about LLMs', agents=[agent])

# (optional) run the task
task.run()
```
</Accordion>

### Model configuration

In addition to choosing a specific model, you can also configure the model's parameters. For example, you can set the temperature for GPT-4o:

```python
import controlflow as cf
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

model = ChatOpenAI(model='gpt-4o', temperature=0.1)
agent = cf.Agent(model=model)

assert agent.model.temperature == 0.1
```

## Changing the default model

ControlFlow has a few ways to customize the default LLM. 

<Tip>
ControlFlow includes OpenAI and Azure OpenAI models by default. To use other models, you'll need to first install the corresponding LangChain package and supply any required credentials. See the model's [documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/chat/) for more information.
</Tip>

### From a model object

To use any model as the default LLM, create the model object in your script and assign it to `controlflow.defaults.model`. It will be used by any agent that does not have a model specified.

```python
import controlflow as cf
from langchain_anthropic import ChatAnthropic

# set the default model
cf.defaults.model = ChatAnthropic(
    model='claude-3-opus-20240229', 
    temperature=0.1,
)

# check that the default model is loaded
assert cf.Agent('Marvin').model.model_name == 'claude-3-opus-20240229'
```
### From a string setting

You can also specify a default model using a string, which is convenient though it doesn't allow you to configure advanced model settings. The string must have the form `<provider>/<model name>`.

You can apply this setting either by using an environment variable before you import ControlFlow or in your script at runtime. For example, to use GPT 3.5 Turbo as the default model:

<CodeGroup>
```bash Set an environment variable
export CONTROLFLOW_LLM_MODEL=openai/gpt-3.5-turbo
```

```python Set a runtime variable
import controlflow as cf
# set the default model as a string
cf.defaults.model = "openai/gpt-3.5-turbo"

# check that the default model is loaded
assert cf.Agent('Marvin').model.model_name == 'gpt-3.5-turbo'
```
</CodeGroup>

<Note>
The default model can only be set by environment variable before importing ControlFlow. Once ControlFlow is imported, it reads the `controlflow.settings.llm_model` value to create the default model object.
</Note>


At this time, setting the default model via string is only supported for the following providers:
- `openai`
- `azure-openai`
- `anthropic`
- `google`
- `groq`
